TELCO CUSTOMER ANALYSIS

Loaded data from kaggle
Found tht some errors in datatype 'TotalCharge'
Changed it dtype from object to numeric using to_numeric()
Checked from any empty rows and those rows for dropped from records. Because those empty rows doesn't make big impact

---Analysis on churn rate
Calculated churn rate as 26.58%
Found that Monthly Charges contributes more for churn rate
 Tenure(months of loyal)'s contribution - 17.8
 Monthly Charges's contribution - 74.4
 Total Charges(Life time charges) - 1531.8
!Even customers who was left out paid more for monthly charge compared to stayed one and their total charge is still less than who stayed.

--Feature Engineering
Created new column 'High-risk Customer' on Excel using a function(=IF(AND(contract column = 'Month-to-month', tenure's column < 6),'Yes','No'))
Created a Pivot table in Excel and used Internet service, churn, customer id as row, column, value(count) respectively.
Is Internet Service results for a churn?
  DSL - 459 out of 2416 customers
  Fiber optic - 1297 out of 3096 customers
  No connection - 113 out of 1520 customers
!Fiber optic connection was faster than others, but it contributes more churn rate as 41.89%
 May it happened because of High rate and slow internet or loss of service.

1'st Insight:
  Even though Fiber Optic is our fastest internet, customers using it are churning at a higher rate than DSL. This suggests either the price is too high or the service is unstable

---Visualizations
Visualized a box plot for monthly charges distributions by churn
  Interpretation:
      ~Monthly charges contributes more chance for churn. Mostly the charges between 55$ to 90$ with the median 80$.
  !High price contributes chance for churn.

Visualized a bar plot for churn rate by internet service type
  Interpretation:
      ~Internet service holders has higher chance for churn with.
      ~The fiber optic service holders had higher chance of churn compared to DSL service holders.
  !Need to concentrate on fiber optic service holders.
Visualized a correlation heat map for the columns with numeric values
  Interpretation:
      ~On this map monthly charges contributes to churn.
      ~Tenure and Total charges has very less contribution to churn.

---Insight thinking
Created a pivot tabe with Internet service, Tech support and Churn as row, column and value(count) respectively.
  Interpretation:
      ~The Churn rate not only because of internet's price, but there is no tech support.
      ~For 63% customers who had internet service doesn't get technical support.
  !Need to give technical support

